---
layout: post
title: "Analyzing why people quit their job and who will quit next. Using Python and Machine Learning, Decision Tree Algorithm."
categories:
  - Post Formats
tags:
  - Data Analyst
  - Machine Learning
---

*Introduction*
According to the article by Balance Articles, employees jump across jobs and roles for averagely 12 times during their lifetime career. Shocking! Imagine what happened to all of those billions of dollars wasted put by the Multinational Companies (MNCs) to retain the employees.

Therefore, managing employee attrition effectively and efficiently is very important. New employees will spend lots of time and money to train and hire them which could otherwise be reallocated in another investment. In fact, this has been a big concern for IBM HR Professionals that IBM is investing billions of dollars in Watson to predict flight risk and win employee attrition. Surely this means knowing why employee quits is a great beginning to attract and retain talents.

In conclusion,it is very important to derive a data driven decision making to understand employees leave to reduce turnover rate, save hiring/training cost and maximize work productivity. All of these translate into great profit for the years ahead.

I have done some analysis using Python and one of Machine Learning algorithm to find out why people leave their job and who the next potential employees that predicted will leave the job. Here we go! (Ba Dum Tss!)

**1. Understanding the dataset**
The dataset comes from my repo [here](https://github.com/bhaskoro-muthohar/DataScienceLearning/blob/master/HR_comma_sep.csv) with csv (coma seperated value) format. The metadata includes the following features: Employee satisfaction level, Last Evaluation, Number of Projects, Average Monthly Hours, Time Spent at the Company, Whether they have had a work accident, Whether they have had a promotion in the last 5 years, Departments, Salary, Whether the employee has left.

Let us start our journey by importing the csv file into Pandas Dataframe.
